Hi everybody and welcome back.
So far we've seen how less really the workhorse of pipe and we've seen the power of the if the else
and the Aliff statements.
Well how about combining all of these things together.
Let's take a look at a type of online shopping cart as our example.
So let's start off creating our shopping cart and our shopping cart is just a list of items that we
have in our cart so we are adding a comment here to say creating our shopping cart
OK.
Next we create our list of shopping cart items so shopping cart clothes square brackets.
Now let's populate our shopping cart pens
paper.
And as always each item in our list is separated by a common stapler.
And finally let's add in some post-its because who doesn't like Post-its.
Now we're going to do is for each item in a shopping cart we're going to add in a print message saying
adding the item to our order.
So that's our income and here's what we know what we're doing.
And I think each item to an order as we go and let's start this off the for statement.
So for Item four items in our shopping cart.
OK so for each of our items in shopping cart we want to print.
So open up a double quote adding space close to the quote Plus item plus open double quotes space to
your order OK and let's close that up put our brackets.
And then we close this off with a print statement telling the user that the order is complete.
So print
your order is complete.
So imagine you're on something like Amazon.com and you're clicking away and pans paper stapler and then
you click checkout and you'll get a message saying your order is complete.
We're doing a very simple version of that to our terminal at your code here.
OK.
So let's run this and see what we get.
First we save it.
Here we go.
Now let's run adding Pansie order paper.
Stay posted.
Your order is complete perfect so that's what we want.
Very simple.
Now what happens when one of our items in our list could be our stock.
How would we deal with that.
So you have to imagine again that we have a shopping cart list and copy another list in our program
which we'll look at later which could be a list of our stock items sort of somebody else in the office.
And every time an item is out of stock they're all taking that list.
So let's have a look at how we deal with an item that's out of stock we can use an if statement inside
a for loop.
So let's do that now.
So inside a for loop.
And as you mentioned before indentation is very important in writing.
So if item I'm going to say that pens are out of stock.
So if the item is pends pans
Sorry that's a spelling mistake there.
Spary sorry
that item is out of stock.
OK.
Simple enough.
Let's close off a double called Koser bracket.
Now order wise else we have in our print print.
Adding the item to our order.
This time we check each order item before adding it to our current or if statement checks to see if
our user has ordered pens.
If they have them we display a message saying the pens are out of stock.
So let's have a look at how that would work and save and run that we go our first our first item is
pens and we get the message.
Sorry that item is out-of-stock not bad.
Very simple online ordering system or the bones of one anyway.
Now there will come a time when we will be working with empty lists.
After all if we are creating a shopping cart we don't know in advance what our user is going to put
in and what they're going to buy.
So our list obviously will be empty at the very beginning of our program.
So let's stick to our shopping cart example and check whether the list shopping cart is empty before
proceeding to the checkout.
If the list is empty We'll tell you it that they need to add an item to the cart before proceeding.
If the list is not empty we proceed with the order just as we did in the previous example.
So let's do that now.
Let me clear off here.
And we're just going to update that update this comment here because this is going to be a new program
working with the lists perfect So let's first create an empty list.
Empty shopping cart
cake shopping cart equals.
And as we saw before and empty this has created just two square brackets.
Now if shopping cart
for item and shopping cart What are we going to do now here.
Well we're going to do is we're going to print
I think very similar to last time plus item plus broken brackets plus double quotes space to your cart
those that are of brackets.
OK.
Otherwise we print
your order is complete
no or else
you must select an item before proceeding.
OK so what are we doing let's have a quick look.
We create an empty shopping cart here.
Now we've opened up an if statement.
So if our shopping cart.
So for item in our shopping cart print adding item to our order.
But as we know our shopping cart is empty.
If it's not empty we get to print a message.
Your order is complete but it is empty.
So we get the message.
You must select an item before proceeding.
So we're checking that.
So let's just say this and let's run it.
You must select an item before proceeding.
OK let's modify that slightly and add an item into a shopping cart.
So let's add in pends savings and run us adding Pansey your card.
Your order is complete.
So you go.
A very simple example of how we can check if an item is in a list or not and how to use the L statement
the if statement and a for statement all together to create a shopping cart example.
I hope we found this helpful if not please let me know and ask any questions you would like.
Q And a section of this lecture.
Thank you and I'll see you in the next lecture.